(PC-20878)[API] docs: Add JS documentation (#5550)
pass-culture/pass-culture-main: api/src/pcapi/routes/backoffice_v3/docs/JSDOC.md

    *   [Examples][21]
*   [NonConstructableUtils][22]
    *   [Examples][23]
*   [PcEventHandler][24]
    *   [Examples][25]
    *   [off][26]
        *   [Parameters][27]
        *   [Examples][28]
    *   [on][29]
        *   [Parameters][30]
        *   [Examples][31]
    *   [one][32]
        *   [Parameters][33]
        *   [Examples][34]
    *   [trigger][35]
        *   [Parameters][36]
        *   [Examples][37]
*   [PcAddOn][38]
    *   [Parameters][39]
    *   [Examples][40]
    *   [\_preventDefault][41]
        *   [Parameters][42]
    *   [bindEvents][43]
        *   [Examples][44]
    *   [initialize][45]
    *   [saveState][46]
        *   [Parameters][47]
        *   [Examples][48]
    *   [unbindEvents][49]
        *   [Examples][50]
*   [Add Ons features][51]
*   [BsTooltips][52]
*   [PcBatchConfirm][53]
    *   [Examples][54]
*   [PcFormsCheckValidity][55]
*   [PcOverrideCustomTextareaEnter][56]
    *   [Examples][57]
*   [PcPostalAddressAutocomplete][58]
    *   [Examples][59]
*   [PcSelectMultipleField][60]
    *   [Examples][61]
*   [PcTableMultiSelect][62]
    *   [Examples][63]
*   [PcValidationFilters][64]
    *   [Examples][65]

## PcBackofficeApp

> Create an instance for your application entrypoint that initialize the Back Office application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creates an instance for your application entrypoint that initializes the Backoffice application
```

This documentation was generated by documentation js.
See below for how to regenerate the documentation or initialize the application..

### Parameters

*   `config` **{addOns: [Array][66]<[PcAddOn][38]>, csrfToken: [string][67]}** the application configuration.

    *   `config.addOns` &#x20;
    *   `config.csrfToken` &#x20;

### Examples

```javascript
// Re-generate this documentation (nodejs 6+ required)
npx documentation build src/pcapi/static/backoffice/js/** \
  --config src/pcapi/routes/backoffice_v3/docs/jsdoc-config.yml \
  --format md \
  --sort-order alpha > src/pcapi/routes/backoffice_v3/docs/JSDOC.md
```

```javascript
// To initialize the application, within the `<head>` of the HTML document:
const app = new BackofficeApp({
  csrfToken: '{{ csrf_token }}', // This value is passed by jinja and contain the csrf token input as a string
  addOns: [
    // add custom JavaScript addons here
  ],
})
```

### addons

> Each application's addons instance are available from within `app` instance through `app.addons[name]`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each application's addons instances are available from within `app` instance through `app.addons[name]`.
```

### appState

This is the JS application state. It is used by PcAddOn and allow partial persistence of any addon state using `addon.saveState(state)`

### bindEvents

> This method is automatically called on window `load` event and will run each addons bindEvents method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This method is automatically called on window `load` event and will run each addon's bindEvents method.
```

When using XHR, it can be useful to rerun the bindEvents method on XHR response after DOM modification.

#### Examples

```javascript

> // To manually  bind all addons

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// To manually bind all addons
```

app.bindEvents()
```

```javascript
// To manually bind a specific addon
app.addons.bsTooltips.unbindEvents()
```

### csrfToken

> To pass csrf security when submitting a form, the backend provide a string which hold `<input />` with the csrf token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To pass csrf security when submitting a form, the backend provides a string which holds `<input />` with the csrf token.
```

> We store the string in `app.csrfToken` in case you need it to generate a form with JavaScript..

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We store the string in `app.csrfToken` in case you need it to generate a form with JavaScript.
```

### initialize

> This method is automatically called on window `load` event and will run each addons initialize method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This method is automatically called on window `load` event and will run each addon's initialize method.
```

When using XHR, it can be useful to rerun the initialization, or initialize a specific addon.

#### Examples

```javascript
// To manually initialize all addons
app.initialize()
```

```javascript
// To manually initialize a specific addon
app.addons.bsTooltips.initialize()
```

### unbindEvents

This method is not called automatically.
It run each addons unbindEvents method.
When using XHR, it can be useful to run the unbindEvents method prior XHR request to edit the DOM.

#### Examples

```javascript
// To manually unbind all addons
app.unbindEvents()
```

```javascript
// To manually unbind a specific addon
app.addons.bsTooltips.unbindEvents()
```

### LOCALSTORAGE\_KEY

This static string is use as the localStorage key for the application.

## Core features

This is the core features

## PcUtils

**Extends NonConstructableUtils**

This class is used to store transversal application utilities.

### addLoadEvent

Push a callback function to window.onload

#### Parameters

*   `callback` **[function][68]** the function to be called on `window.onload`

### debounce

> Debounce a function (prevent function to be called until a certain daily. Can be useful for autocompletion)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Debounce a function (prevents the function from being called until a certain daily. Can be useful for autocompletion)
```

#### Parameters

*   `callback` **[function][68]** the function to debounce
*   `ms` **[number][69]** the debounce delay in milliseconds

Returns **[function][68]** the debounced function

## KeyboardKeyCode

**Extends NonConstructableUtils**

Store some useful JavaScript Keyboard events keycode statically

### Examples

```javascript
// return 13
KeyboardKeyCode.ENTER
```

## NonConstructableUtils

This abstract class is used to create new utilities.

> It use a protection to prevent using anything but static methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It uses a protection to prevent using anything but static methods.
```

### Examples

```javascript
// To create a new utility:
class PcNewToolBox extends NonConstructableUtils {
  static doSomething() {
    return "do"
  }
}
```

```javascript
// usage
PcNewToolBox.doSomething()
// fail
new PcNewToolBox()
```

## PcEventHandler

> This singleton class utility can be used to bind/unbind event in the style of `jQuery.on`/`jQuery.off`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This singleton utility class can be used to bind/unbind event in the style of `jQuery.on`/`jQuery.off`.
```
Pas certain de celui-là, ça dépend de ce que tu cherches à dire

It is heavily inspired from Bootstrap (v5.3.0-alpha1): `dom/event-handler.js`

Original source: [https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap/blob/cf9454caa00872899215603e5e036d9a824b1b11/js/src/dom/event-handler.js][70]

> As the original source, this addon is licensed as MIT..

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As the original source, this addon is licensed as MIT.
```

*   `delegationFunction` **[function][68]** the event method to bind

#### Examples

```javascript
EventHandler.on(document.body, 'click', '.nav-link', onNavLinkClick)
```

### one

Read more: [https://api.jquery.com/one/#one-events-selector-data][74]

#### Parameters

*   `element` **[element][72]** the parent element to apply bind
*   `event` **[string][67]** the event name to bind
*   `handler` **[string][67]** the selector for element bind apply
*   `delegationFunction` **[function][68]** the event method to bind

#### Examples

```javascript
EventHandler.one(document.body, 'click', '.nav-link#something', onNavLinkClick)
```

### trigger

Read more: [https://api.jquery.com/trigger/#trigger-events-selector-data][75]

#### Parameters

*   `element` **[element][72]** DOM element to trigger event on
*   `event` **[string][67]** The event to trigger
*   `args` **any** Arguments to be passed to the event

#### Examples

```javascript
EventHandler.trigger(document.querySelectorAll('.nav-link')[2], 'click')
```

Returns **(null | [Event][76])** null if element is undefined or event is not a string, the triggered event otherwise

## PcAddOn

> This abstract class can be extended to create new addon for new JavaScript features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This abstract class can be extended to create a new addon for new JavaScript features.
```
ou
```suggestion
This abstract class can be extended to create new addons for new JavaScript features.
```

> **It is mandatory to use it each time we need to add JavaScript features!**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**It is mandatory to use it each time one needs to add JavaScript features!**
```

### Parameters

*   `config` **{name: [string][67], app: [PcBackofficeApp][1], addOnState: any}** the addon configuration

    *   `config.name` &#x20;
    *   `config.app` &#x20;
    *   `config.addOnState` &#x20;

### Examples

```javascript
class ExampleAddOn extend PcAddOn {
  initialize() {
    // prepare the DOM if necessary
  }
  bindEvents() {
    // bind events
    EventHandler.on(document.body, 'click', this.#onClick)
  }

  unbindEvents() {
    // unbind events (revert)
    EventHandler.off(document.body, 'click', this.#onClick)
  }
}
```

```javascript

> // Add it to you app addons:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Add it to your app addons:
```

const app = new PcBackofficeApp({
  addOns: [
    ExampleAddOn, // <-- This is how you mount a new addon into the application.
  ]
})
```

### \_preventDefault

> This method is just a repetitive utility that prevent default event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This method is just a repetitive utility that prevents default event.
```

Author: Il n'y a que un seul event

> Can be useful to prevent code duplication between addon when you only need to prevent default event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Can be useful to prevent code duplication between addons when you only need to prevent default event.
```

#### Parameters

*   `event` **[event][76]** the event

### bindEvents

> This method bind addon events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This method binds addon events.
```

> Initialization is already called on document load through instance of `PcBackofficeApp`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Initialization is already called on document load through the instance of `PcBackofficeApp`.
```

It is called when event `turbo:frame-render` is emitted, prior an XHR call.

#### Examples

```javascript
app.addons.bsTooltips.bindEvents()
```

### initialize

> This method initialize the addon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This method initializes the addon.
```

> Initialization is already called on document load through instance of `PcBackofficeApp`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Initialization is already called on document load through the instance of `PcBackofficeApp`
```

### saveState

> This method save addon new state in localStorage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This method saves the addon's new state in localStorage
```

#### Parameters

> *   `state` **any** the addon new state to be persisted

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   `state` **any** the addon's new state to be persisted
```

#### Examples

```javascript
// within the addon
this.saveState(this.state)
```

```javascript

> // outside the addon

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// outside of the addon
```

app.addons[name].saveState(newState)
```

### unbindEvents

> This method unbind addon events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This method unbinds addon events.
```

It is called when event `turbo:before-frame-render` is emitted, after an XHR call.

#### Examples

```javascript
app.addons.bsTooltips.unbindEvents()
```

## Add Ons features

Below addons are created using PcAddOn class.

## BsTooltips

**Extends PcAddOn**

> This add PcAddOn support for bootstrap 5 tooltips..

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This adds PcAddOn support for bootstrap 5 tooltips..
```

It works using bootstrap 5 html markup.
Read documentation: [https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.0/components/tooltips/#examples][77]

## PcBatchConfirm

**Extends PcAddOn**

> Add support for button group action that use the table multi select selections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add support for button group action that uses the table multi select selections.
```

To work, each `.btn-group` must set the following attributes:

*   `[data-toggle="pc-batch-confirm-btn-group"]`: this value is fixed,
*   `[data-toggle-id]`: the value must be a unique identifier,
*   `[data-pc-table-multi-select-id]`: the value must be a valid pc table multi select identifier.

> Within the `.btn-group` container, you can add as much button as necessary and must set some attributes too:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Within the `.btn-group` container, you can add as many buttons as needed, and must set some attributes too:
```

*   `[data-url]`: the value must be a valid endpoint for the form submit,

> *   `[data-title]`: the value use as a title by the modal opening form,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   `[data-title]`: the value used as a title by the modal opening form,
```

  data-pc-table-multi-select-id="table-container-user-offerer-validation"
>
  <button
    disabled
    type="button"
    class="btn btn-outline-primary"
    data-url="/backofficev3/pro/validation/user-offerer/batch-validate"
    data-title="Valider le(s) rattachement(s)"
    data-batch-confirm-id="validating-modal"
    data-modal-button-text="Valider"
    data-user-confirmation-modal="false"
  >
    Valider
  </button>
  <button
    disabled
    type="button"
    class="btn btn-outline-primary"
    data-url="/backofficev3/pro/validation/user-offerer/batch-pending"
    data-title="Mettre en attente le(s) rattachement(s)"
    data-batch-confirm-id="pending-modal"
    data-modal-button-text="Mettre en attente"
    data-use-confirmation-modal="true"
  >
    Mettre en attente
  </button>
  <button
    disabled
    type="button"
    class="btn btn-outline-primary"
    data-url="/backofficev3/pro/validation/user-offerer/batch-reject"
    data-title="Rejeter le(s) rattachement(s)"
    data-batch-confirm-id="rejecting-modal"
    data-modal-button-text="Rejeter"
    data-use-confirmation-modal="true"
  >
    Rejeter
  </button>
</div>
```

## PcFormsCheckValidity

**Extends PcAddOn**

> This edit default `submit` event on forms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This edits default `submit` event on forms.
```

> It internally run first  `form.checkValidity()` and abort in case of invalid form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It internally runs `form.checkValidity()` first, and aborts in case of invalid form.
```

> > There is no markup necessary as this select all `<form />`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> There is no markup necessary as this selects all `<form />`
```

## PcOverrideCustomTextareaEnter

**Extends PcAddOn**

> This class trick the default event of a `<textarea />` by submitting the form on <kbd>ENTER</kbd>,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This class tricks the default event of a `<textarea />` by submitting the form on <kbd>ENTER</kbd>,
```

> and go to next line on <kbd>CTRL</kbd>+<kbd>ENTER</kbd> or <kbd>SHIFT</kbd>+<kbd>ENTER</kbd>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and goes to the next line on <kbd>CTRL</kbd>+<kbd>ENTER</kbd> or <kbd>SHIFT</kbd>+<kbd>ENTER</kbd>.
```

### Examples

```javascript
<textarea class="pc-override-custom-textarea-enter"></textarea>
```

## PcPostalAddressAutocomplete

**Extends PcAddOn**

Render a postal address autocomplete that fills value in hidden inputs.

It can be used when declaring form fields in the backend using `fields.PcPostalAddressAutocomplete`.

> > There is no HTML markup example as it use a wtforms fields: `postal_address_autocomplete.html`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> There is no HTML markup example as it uses a wtforms fields: `postal_address_autocomplete.html`
```

### Examples

```javascript
// We declare field mapping to tell what field the autocomplete must set.

> // None of them are mandatory, however, choose one so your autocomplete can submit something to the backend..

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// None of them are mandatory, however, you need to choose one so your autocomplete can submit something to the backend.
```

postal_address_autocomplete = fields.PcPostalAddressAutocomplete(
  "Adresse",

>   address="address", // address field name within your form to be autocompleted

Reviewer: Je comprends pas trop ce que tu cherches à dire dans le commentaire ici

Author: La valeur attendu est l'attribut name de ton input address.

Si tu regardes les forms, tout les input on un name, c'est ainsi qu'on identifie le champs d'un formulaire, et c'est donc ainsi que l'autocomplete sait dans quel input saisir la valeur en cas de séléction d'un choix autocomplete.

  city="city", // city field name within your form to be autocompleted
  postalCode="postalCode", // postalCode field name within your form to be autocompleted
  latitude="latitude", // latitude field name within your form to be autocompleted
  longitude="longitude", // longitude field name within your form to be autocompleted
  required=True, // if True, we will add required attribute to autocomplete input (default: false)
  hasReset=True, // if True, it will add a reset to initial values button (default: false)
  hasManualEditing=True, // if True, it will propose manual edition (default: false)
  limit=10, // limit of autocompletes choices (default: 10)
)

> // Below are the hidden fields, you can decide to add form validation on them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Below are the hidden fields, you can decide to add form validators to them.
```

> address = fields.PCOptHiddenField("address") // if set, it will be set on selection

Reviewer: Tu veux dire quoi par "it will be set on selection" ?

Author: Je veux dire que si tu séléctionne un choix de l'auto complete, le field address sera rempli si déclaré dans ton form

city = fields.PCOptHiddenField("Ville") // if set, it will be set on selection
postalCode = fields.PCOptPostalCodeHiddenField("Code postal") // if set, it will be set on selection
latitude = fields.PCOptHiddenField("Latitude") // if set, it will be set on selection
longitude = fields.PCOptHiddenField("Longitude") // if set, it will be set on selection
```

## PcSelectMultipleField

**Extends PcAddOn**

Configure TomSelect on a `<select multiple />`.

> In the front-end business, we note two type of tom select instance:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the front-end business, we note two types of tom select instances:
```

1.  select multiple field.
2.  select multiple field with xhr autocomplete.

### Examples

```javascript
// select multiple field
<select multiple class="pc-select-multiple-field">
  <option value="1">item #1</option>
  <option value="2">item #2</option>
</select>
```

```javascript
// select multiple field with xhr autocomplete.

> // In this example, our backend automatically set data attributes, this permit the initial render with initialValues

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// In this example, our backend automatically sets data attributes, this allows the initial render to have initialValues
```
